# RWD Recommended Process
_(for students)_

### Process for each project:
1.	*Thumbnails and Concepting* As with any project, students will begin on paper. Students will define a problem and intended solution for each project, as well as identify how their intended solutions solve the problem presented to them. They will examine 15+ different solutions for each project in the form of thumbnails. Each thumbnail will consist of 3–4 sketches, showing the student's concept and design for multiple devices.
2.	*StyleTiles and Proposals* Using an adapted version of Samantha Warren's StyleTiles, which work similarly to mood boards, students will craft 3–5 vision directions for each project. The styletiles will include color, pattern, typography, and photography to help present each look-and-feel. Fellow students will help identify the strongest of the styletiles, and provide feedback for other classmates. Each student will type and design a proposal to accompany each concept and styletile.
3.	*Designing in the Browser* Along with having to design for different browsers, students will have to design for different devices. In order to efficiently use their time students will design through code in the browser, rather than building out each frames in Photoshop and Illustrator. This is done not only to efficiently use time, but also allow the designer to test their design in the environment is will be viewed in. This is one of many practices designers in the industry use, and is meant to give students another process to work with.
4.	*Code Validation* Code validators allow designers and developers to try their best to ensure that the code is standard compliant. While meeting every requirement of a code validator may be impossible, they can be good tools to use to find human error or learn more about HTML and CSS.
5.	*Testing/Feedback* Testing the site on different browsers and devices to check to make sure the design and experience is mostly similar on each one.
6.	*Iteration* As we are learning, design is a living and breathing creature. A design doesn't finish, but rather evolves, piece by piece, over time, and adapts to the times. We may find ourselves making small to big adjustments with the pace of technology and design trends. Iteration also allows for the designer to receive feedback and made adjustments as needed. A design isn't ever "done".
